# Book Reviews

**2015-01-10 / Acceptance - Jeff VanderMeer**

Not nearly as good as the first two in the series. The mystery of Area X
continued without any real answers that were forthcoming. At the same time, the
character development stalled completely.

At the end, I found not much had really happened. There were many more story
threads than in the other two books, but only Saul's (the lighthouse keeper)
resonated in any way, and then only for a bit.

**2015-02-10 / Peripheral - William Gibson**

Very dense. Scott mentioned that he thought it was crazy-super-dense even for
Gibson, but I thought Neuromancer was harder to get a grasp on. I really like
the idea of the past being a communicable place that rich plutocrats from the
future pillage. I thought the tech was mostly unimaginative, but maybe that’s
my cynicism.

The “romance” between Flynn and Netherton was boring. Most of the characters
were underdeveloped. The ending happened too abruptly (And then… everything
worked out happily ever after!), and the mystery and motivations of the bad
guys was completely undeveloped.

Overall not the most amazing book, but good in Gibsonian style

**2015-03-01 / The House of Silk - Anthony Horowitz**

Brilliantly new and riveting Holmes story. Pretty much nothing not to like
except that it ended. I’m hopeful that Horwitz’s other Holmes books are as
good.

Quite and interesting the twist of how things connected at the end was
unexpected, including the wife-cum-killer and the husband pedophile. Watson’s
internal narrative set the stage brilliantly. The only thing that could have
been added was more of an insight into Holmes himself. But maybe that’s the
charm of the Sherlock stories?

**2015-03-07 / The Martian - Andy Weir**

Interesting take on the classic survival story. Mark Watney is a bit of a campy
character. Too much “lol’ing” and everything. The survival bits are
fascinating, and lots of the maths is cool. However, the book dragged on a bit
longer than was necessary - and every corner something going wrong was
annoying. None of the other characters were ever really explored (perhaps that
was the point).

Overall, it was a page turner. I finished it ravenously fast, unable to put it
down.

**2015-03-15 / Moriarty - Anthony Horowitz**

Not nearly as good as The House of Silk. Excellent twist, kept mostly hidden
until the end (though at the point the reader is surely starting to guess).

Moriarty himself describes Holmes as bumbling and childish, never really a
rival at all, shattering quite a lot of the illusion. Especially since… if he
was really all that brilliant: How did Devoreaux start to take over across the
pond to begin with?

Overall, a good book but disappointing following on the heals of the first.
Here’s hoping Horowitz makes a return to the true Holmesian style in the next
edition.

**2015-04-05 / The Boys in the Boat - Daniel James Brown**

Fantastic story. I couldn’t believe how riveted I was. The era when sports
meant heart and not dollars is sadly past. The back drop of the depression
along with the coming tide of WWII cast against west coast blue collar workers
was fantastic.

It’s hard not to be inspired by the story of Joe Rantz and the other boys. It’s
hard not to be jealous of the kind of comradery shown by the crew.

Grippingly written. Not a book to be put down.

**2015-05-20 / Solaris - Stanisław Lem**

Very much a psychological thriller throughout. The first half or so was
extremely good, the explanation of the living planet and the confusion oozes
through the pages.

As the book procedes, though, it directs its gaze firmly towards its navel.
Pontificating on all kinds of probably-philosophical-but-ultimately-boring
existentialism. Should have powered through the final half, but found it
extremely difficult. Not as clear a sci-fi statement on the real world as most
classics.

**2015-06-06 / I Am the Messenger - Markus Zusak**

Strong beginning, but wavers heavily towards the end. The message that “normal”
people have the opportunity to be great, all they have to do is pay attention
was paper thin. The romance coming together at the end was cheesy.

However, being set in Sydney there was lots of interesting Australian-isms.
Zusak, just like in The Book Thief, wrote engagingly. I didn’t really put the
book down once I started, but felt ultimately unsatisfied at the end.

**2015-06-09 / Where’d You Go Bernadette - Maria Semple**

Charming story, and a very interesting concept. Throughout the book the only
character that I didn’t think was a total jerk was Bee (the girl writing).
Bernadette was a prima donna, too focused on herself and judgemental of others.
The dad, out of nowhere, went from foundation solid to off the rails crazy.

All of the other women were catty and gossipy, complete stereotypes. Only once
in the book did Bee finally recognise the privilege that she was born into.

I loved the way the characters were explored, and the ending was about as good
as it possibly could have been.

**2015-07-16 / Call for the Dead - John le Carré**

Completely forgettable. Not nearly as good as Tinker, Tailor, Solider, Spy.

**2015-07-20 / The Girl on the Train - Paula Hawkins**

A novel filled with irrational people and their intrigue. The way the story
unfolded was incredibly well executed, but the “twist” felt forced. Extremely
well written. After about the first 1/4, I couldn’t put it down.

The characterisation of alcoholism was, I think, the best part of the book, and
Rachel’s character kept me the most engaged. Definitely an improbable amount of
fucked-up people in such a small vicinity of one another, though. The epilogue
felt as if the book had to have a happy ending.

**2015-07-24 / Armada - Ernest Cline**

Not as good as Ready Player One, but still pretty awesome. Basically a
self-aware “last starfighter” with a it of star trek twist. The writing, as
with Ready Player One, was impeccably informal and was totally a page turner.

The 80’s trivia/pop-culture was a bit much, this time around though. In Ready
Player One it felt like it was taking a bit of the piss, but this time around
it feels forced.

**2015-08-06 / Game of Thrones - George R.R. Martin**
**2015-08-16 / A Clash of Kings - George R.R. Martin**
**2015-08-27 / A Storm of Swords - George R.R. Martin**

What’s to say here that hasn’t already been written. ASOIAF is a fantastic
series, and after spending a bunch more time understanding the lore and history
of Westeros is even more interesting.

**2015-09-10 / The Phoenix Project - Gene Kim, Kevin Behr, and George Spafford**

The first time I’ve read a “work” book and not just learned something, but
enjoyed the ride. Obviously a parable, but well written enough that I didn’t
care. Has inspired me to read “The Toyota Way” and perhaps pursue more thinking
about manufacturing approaches.

**2015-09-10 / When Google Met Wikileaks - Julian Assange**

Julian is such an inspired thinker. Both the interview and his polemic against
Eric Schmidt as commentary of the aftermath is particularly insightful. The
footnotes were often such a distraction that I had a hard time following the
thought train.

Assange’s insights into Namecoin and Bitcoin were especially interesting. I
wish I would have read this interview years ago. Where was this when I was a
kid?
